# Data-Driven Team Selection Model for Olympic Gymnastics
Welcome to our project, where advanced data analysis meets Olympic gymnastics team selection. This initiative is focused on developing a robust, data-driven model to optimize the selection of gymnastic teams for the UCSAS 2024 Olympics. By integrating sophisticated statistical techniques and computational algorithms, our model aims to ensure that the best possible athletes represent their countries. From in-depth data crawling to complex genetic algorithms, this project represents a creative effort in sports analytics and team optimization.


## Project Description
This project presents a sophisticated model for selecting Olympic gymnastics teams for UCSAS 2024, employing advanced statistical and computational methods. It integrates Kernel Density Estimation (KDE), Gaussian Distribution, K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), and a Genetic Algorithm to optimize team selection.


## Installation and Setup
The whole project is run in python.

To ensure the program runs smoothly, it's important to maintain a specific folder structure, as established in the UCSAS_TF.zip file:
{
Original_Data Folder:{
    Contains files: data_2017-2021.csv, data_2022_2023.csv (Provided by UCSAS official GitHub).
    }

Supplemental_Data(File&Crawling_Code):{
    Files: SingleItem_Data.csv, AllAround_Data.csv (Generated by DataCrawler_AllAround.py & DataCrawler_SingleItem).
    Subfolder AllAround_PDF_Qualification&Final: {Includes PDFs of all-around events from the Tokyo Olympics for men.}
    Subfolder SingleItem_PDF_Qualification&Final: {Contains PDFs of individual apparatus events from the Tokyo Olympics for men.}
    }

Cleaned&ReOrganized_Data Folder:{
    Files: Cleaned_Data_2017_2021(With_Supplemental_Data).csv, Cleaned_Data_2022_2023.csv (Generated by DataCleaning_V5.py).
    Subfolder ReOrganized_Data_m: {Contains txt, csv, and joblib files for men, produced by DataConstruction_V5.py and Fliter_Best_Candidate_Athletes_V3.py}
    Subfolder ReOrganized_Data_w: {Contains txt, csv, and joblib files for women, produced by DataConstruction_V5.py and Fliter_Best_Candidate_Athletes_V3.py}
    }

Training_History Folder:{
    Subfolder Training_History_m: {Stores csv files documenting men's team selection training history, generated by Genetic_Algorithm_Implement_V7.py.}
    Subfolder Training_History_w: {Stores csv files documenting women's team selection training history, generated by Genetic_Algorithm_Implement_V7.py.}
    }

DataCleaning_V2.py
DataConstruction_V5.py
FinalComparsion_V2.py
Fliter_Best_Candidate_Athletes_V3.py
}


## Process Overview
The program's workflow is structured into seven key stages:

Data Crawling:
Source data from the Supplemental_Data(File&Crawling_Code) folder.
Execute DataCrawler_AllAround.py and DataCrawler_SingleItem to generate SingleItem_Data.csv and AllAround_Data.csv.

Data Cleaning:
Run DataCleaning_V2.py.
Output: Cleaned_Data_2017_2021(With_Supplemental_Data).csv, Cleaned_Data_2022_2023.csv.

Data Reconstruction and Analysis:
Execute DataConstruction_V5.py.
Results in most files within ReOrganized_Data_m and ReOrganized_Data_w, focusing on feature calculation and distribution analysis.

Candidate Filtering:
Run Filter_Best_Candidate_Athletes_V3.py.
Generates filtered athlete lists in ReOrganized_Data_m and ReOrganized_Data_w.

Genetic Algorithm for Team Selection:
Execute Genetic_Algorithm_Implement_V7.py.
Produces TrainingHistory.csv in Training_History_m and Training_History_w.

Training Effect Analysis:
Run ShowTrend_V2 to create plots visualizing training history and trends.

Final Team Selection:
Execute FinalComparison.py.
Compares best candidate teams from each training history, ranks them, and identifies the optimal team composition.


## Conclusion
The project demonstrates a practical application of complex data analysis techniques in sports team selection, offering a structured approach to team optimization for the Paris 2024 Olympics.


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. This means that anyone is free to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of this software, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
For more details on the MIT License, please refer to the license agreement.


## Contact Information
shilongr@usc.edu
shilong.r2000@gmail.com (alternate)
